---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-30T13:11:01.084Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-30T13:10:12.747Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-30-fe10cc95-9b1e-447e-b17d-d14057ff6b3a.md
published: true
url: fe10cc95-9b1e-447e-b17d-d14057ff6b3a/index.html
_type: Article

---
SME's and micro enterprises are the economic backbone of most economies in Europe. They typically account for
90% of the industrial fabric and contribute in a significant way to economic growth, social cohesion, employment,
regional and local development. The majority of these companies employ less than 5 people. One of today's mega
trends is that the global economy is leading towards fast-growing standardisation in products, processes, management
and information. Global sourcing of goods and services imposes labels, standards, management tools and control
systems. Furthermore, greening of government programmes and corporate green purchasing underpin this trend
and, as these measures become commonplace, more sustainable procurement will result.
For SME's in the supply chain in the European and the Global market, these changes will have impacts in day-to-day
activities.
A growing number of small companies have already demonstrated or may soon need to recognize demonstrate track
record of regular, positive environmental management, even in emerging economies. Furthermore health, safety,
working conditions and social issues are the subject of growing public scrutiny by consumers worldwide.
Therefore, the business of tomorrow is not just about products or processes but also about the management processes
which surround them. This is the focus for EMAS!
Standards and tools are shaped/have relevance to 90% of industry, whether medium or large, or multi-site or multinational
organizations.
But traditional quality and environmental management tools do not fit into the reality of the small or micro-business
with less than 10 employees. Nor do they fit well in many SME's.
It is not the intrinsic qualities of those standards which are too high - it is more the internal and external barriers to
access which are more demanding -- cost, bureaucracy, resources, knowledge...